Converted to Markdown (#622)
cncf/tag-security: supply-chain-security/supply-chain-security-paper/sscsp.md.md

> # **<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Draft</span>**: Software Supply Chain Best Practices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shared with the CNCF community

# Software Supply Chain Best Practices
```

> 
> # **Schedule tentative (due by dates)**
> 
> **Feb 26 ** - initial content draft in the document for all sections
> 
> **Mar 5 ** - Reviews of all draft content and clearing out commentary
> 
> **Mar 12** - Content finesse
> 
> **Mar 19** -** **single voice narrative review
> 
> **Apr 9-23** - Community review (2 weeks)
> 
> **Apr** **30 - **adjudication of community review  and final group review
> 
> 
> <table>
>   <tr>
>    <td><strong>Version</strong>
>    </td>
>    <td>.1
>    </td>
>    <td>March 5th 2021
>    </td>
>    <td>Working doc
>    </td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>    <td><strong>Status</strong>
>    </td>
>    <td>WIP
>    </td>
>    <td>In review
>    </td>
>    <td><strong>Approved</strong>
>    </td>
>   </tr>
> </table>
> 
> 
> 
> <table>
>   <tr>
>    <td><strong>Final Approves (TOC Liaisons)</strong>
>    </td>
>    <td>[X] @lizrice  [X] @justincormack
>    </td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Metadata

| **Markdown** | | | |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
| **Version** | **1.0** | 13 MAY 2021 | [Original working doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VURD9rdEhiuqPdixhEozkHw01Tk6e2AaJVjBK3pK6Zc) |
| **Status** | WIP | In Review | **Approved** |

| **PDF** | |
| -- | -- |
| **Created** | TBD |
| **Last Reviewed** | TBD |
| **PDF Published** | TBD |
| **Release Version** | 1.0 | 
| **Final PDF Approvers** | [ ] @lizrice [ ] @justincormack  |

```

>    <td><strong>Original Content Creators</strong>
>    </td>
>    <td>Add github handle here, Andres Vega @anvega, Emily Fox @TheFoxAtWork
> <p>
> Faisal Razzak, @faisalrazzak, @apmarshall, Cole Kennedy @colek42,Mikhail Swift @mikhailswift, Jon Meadows @jonmuk, Aditya Sirish A Yelgundhalli @adityasaky, Nisha Kumar @nishakm, Joshua Lock @joshuagl, Andrew Martin @sublimino, @mnm678 , Vinod Anandan @VinodAnandan, Magno Logan @magnologan, @rjulian @lumjjb @mlieberman85 @garrying
>    </td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>    <td><strong>Original Reviewers</strong>
>    </td>
>    <td>@aspanner @mike-ensor @timfong888 @alexbarbato @voor, Alok Raj @ak-secops
>    </td>
>   </tr>
> </table>
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

| **Originating Content and Review** | |
| -- | --|
| **Contributors** | Andres Vega @anvega, Emily Fox @TheFoxAtWork, Faisal Razzak @faisalrazzak, @apmarshall, Cole Kennedy @colek42,Mikhail Swift @mikhailswift, Jon Meadows @jonmuk, Aditya Sirish A Yelgundhalli @adityasaky, Nisha Kumar @nishakm, Joshua Lock @joshuagl, Andrew Martin @sublimino, @mnm678 , Vinod Anandan @VinodAnandan, Magno Logan @magnologan, @rjulian @lumjjb @mlieberman85 @garrying |
| **Reviewers** | @aspanner @mike-ensor @timfong888 @alexbarbato @voor, Alok Raj @ak-secops | 

## Index

```

> **Reviewing**:  If reviewing, be sure to highlight the particular section or line of text with a question, comment, etc. in the google doc via the comment feature.  If the question is more thematic such as organizational layout or consistency drop it in the slack channel  #tag-security-supply-chain-wg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  [Executive Summary](#executive-summary)
-  [Introduction](#introduction)
  -  [Audience](#audience)
  -  [Scope](#scope)
    -  [Non-Goals](#non-goals)
  -  [Assumptions](#assumptions)
    -  [Shared Responsibility](#shared-responsibility)
    -  [Projects and Products](#projects-and-products)
  -  [Assurance Personas and Risk Appetite](#assurance-personas-and-risk-appetite)
    -  [Assurance Requirements](#assurance-requirements)
    -  [Risk Environments](#risk-environments)
  -  [Securing the Software Supply Chain](#securing-the-software-supply-chain)
  -  [General Guidance](#general-guidance)
-  [Securing the Source Code](#securing-the-source-code)
  - [Secure Authentication](#secure-authentication)
-  [Securing Materials](#securing-materials)
  -  [Second and Third-Party Risk Management](#second-and-third-party-risk-management)
-  [Securing Build Pipelines](#securing-build-pipelines)
  -  [Build Infrastructure](#build-infrastructure)
    -  [Build Step and Worker](#build-step-and-worker)
    -  [Build Pipeline to Create Build Stage Images](#build-pipeline-to-create-build-images)
    -  [Pipeline Orchestrator](#pipeline-orchestrator)
    -  [A Sample Build Pipeline](#a-sample-build-pipeline)
    -  [Recommendations for Reproducible Builds](#recommendations-for-reproducible-builds)
-  [Securing Artifacts](#securing-artifacts)
  -  [Encryption](#encryption)
-  [Securing Deployments](#securing-deployments)
-  [Prior Art and References](#prior-art-and-references)
-  [Appendix I](#appendix-i-containers)
-  [Footnotes](#notes)
```

## Automation:

#### Use The Update Framework

_Assurance categories: High and risk categories: High_

TUF is a specification[^55] for securely delivering software artefacts by combining trust, compromise resilience, integrity, and freshness. It is a graduated CNCF project and has been deployed in various contexts — PyPI, Datadog, Amazon Web Services for Bottlerocket, Notary, Google Fuchsia, and IBM cloud. 

Several TUF implementations exist that can be leveraged by new adopters. The reference implementation[^56] is written in Python, and is maintained by the core TUF team. Notary, another CNCF project, implements TUF for its underlying security framework. Finally, there are implementations written in Go, go-tuf[^57], Rust, tough[^58], and PHP php-tuf[^59]. 

TUF has also been used to bootstrap trust in delivering software supply chain metadata, specifically those pertaining to in-toto. The Datadog model combines TUF and in-toto to provide end-to-end guarantees to the consumer. This model has been documented in a blog post[^60] and two in-toto Enhancements (ITEs), ITE-2[^61] and ITE-3[^62].

# 

> # Prior Art / References:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Prior Art and References:
```
